Blazor .NET to JS Streaming Interop (#23046)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/javascript-interoperability/call-javascript-from-dotnet.md

## Stream from JavaScript to .NET

Blazor supports streaming data directly from JavaScript to .NET. Streams are requested using the `Microsoft.JSInterop.IJSStreamReference` interface.

> `Microsoft.JSInterop.IJSStreamReference` returns a <xref:System.IO.Stream> and uses the following parameters:

Reviewer: Not sure of doc convention here, but maybe:

```suggestion
`Microsoft.JSInterop.IJSStreamReference.OpenReadStreamAsync` returns a <xref:System.IO.Stream> and uses the following parameters:
```

https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/66ceea4fc6ccbd710c5b77782761f92557a08be6/src/JSInterop/Microsoft.JSInterop/src/IJSStreamReference.cs#L27

* `maxAllowedSize`: Maximum number of bytes permitted for the read operation from JavaScript, which defaults to 512,000 bytes if not specified.
* `cancellationToken`: A <xref:System.Threading.CancellationToken> for cancelling the read.

In JavaScript:

```javascript
function streamToDotNet() {
  return new Uint8Array(10000000);
}
```

In C# code:

```csharp
var dataReference = 
    await JS.InvokeAsync<IJSStreamReference>("streamToDotNet");
using var dataReferenceStream = 
    await dataReference.OpenReadStreamAsync(maxAllowedSize: 10_000_000);

var outputPath = Path.Combine(Path.GetTempPath(), "file.txt");
using var outputFileStream = File.OpenWrite(outputPath);
await dataReferenceStream.CopyToAsync(outputFileStream);
```

In the preceding example:

* `JS` is an injected <xref:Microsoft.JSInterop.IJSRuntime> instance.

> * The JS stream is written to disk (`file.txt`) at the current user's temporary folder path (<xref:System.IO.Path.GetTempPath%2A>).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `dataReferenceStream` is written to disk (`file.txt`) at the current user's temporary folder path (<xref:System.IO.Path.GetTempPath%2A>).
```

What's the %2A `*` at the end?

Author: Convention for linking API docs. The doc has multiple members/overloads in it, so the asterisk represents any of them. It must be encoded to make linting happy, but it actually will work if we just use `*` ... you may see a few sprinkled around the doc set at large.

## Stream from .NET to JavaScript

*This feature applies to ASP.NET Core 6.0 Release Candidate 1 or later. ASP.NET Core 6.0 Release Candidate 1 is scheduled for release in September. ASP.NET Core 6.0 is scheduled for release later this year.*

Blazor supports streaming data directly from .NET to JavaScript. Streams are created using a `Microsoft.JSInterop.DotNetStreamReference`.

`Microsoft.JSInterop.DotNetStreamReference` represents a .NET stream and uses the following parameters:

> * `stream`: The stream sent to JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `stream`: The stream to be sent JavaScript.
```

Author: We try to avoid state verbs if possible.

Author: :smile: ... but it doesn't always work out.

> should be left open

🙈 ... I might change that.

Reviewer: Ah okay, feel free to ignore in that case 😄

Author: I'll update tomorrow morning as I'm OOF the rest of the day. But the text is probably better more like .......

> When set to `true`, the stream is left open after transmission. Defaults to `false` if not provided.

* `leaveOpen`: A flag that indicates whether the stream should be left open after transmission, which defaults to `false` if not provided.

In JavaScript, use an array buffer or a readable stream to receive the data:

* Using an [`ArrayBuffer`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer):

  ```javascript
  async function streamToJavaScript(streamRef) {
    const data = await streamRef.arrayBuffer();
  }
  ```

* Using a [`ReadableStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/ReadableStream):

  ```javascript
  async function streamToJavaScript(streamRef) {
    const stream = await streamRef.stream();
  }
  ```

In C# code:

```csharp
using var streamRef = new DotNetStreamReference(stream: {STREAM}, leaveOpen: false);
await JS.InvokeVoidAsync("streamToJavaScript", streamRef);
```

In the preceding example:

> * The `{STREAM}` placeholder is a <xref:System.IO.Stream>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `{STREAM}` placeholder represents the <xref:System.IO.Stream> to be sent to JavaScript.
```
